Dear Colleague:

This is to notify you about the availability of the benchmark examples
for placement and routing that will be discussed during the forthcoming
International Workshop on Layout Synthesis.  The benchmark set
incorporates some of the examples from the Physical Design Workshops
'87 and '89, the Compaction Benchmarks Session from the 1987
International Conference on Computer Design, and the International
Workshop on Placement and Routing '88. Based on the consensus of the
Workshop Committee members, those of the benchmarks used in the past
which were found to be the most challenging and/or referenced in
conference and journal publications are included in the current suite.
Furthermore, additional large examples were added to the benchmark set
to provide a continuing challenge to the software tools.

I still expect several challenging benchmarks to be added to the
current suite.  Their availability will be announced as soon as I
receive the data.  Meanwhile, please try out those benchmarks that are
already available.

You may choose to present your results either as a highlight of your
presentation during any of the sessions at the workshop or during a
special session that will introduce the benchmark posters. In either
case, you are invited to submit the benchmark results to me at the
address given at the end of this message.  All results will be compiled
as anonymous contributions unless you ask to be identified.

While the group creating the benchmarks tried to produce a clean,
workable and reasonable set, it is likely that there will be at least
some ambiguity, and perhaps some errors in them.  We therefore ask that
you send your electornic mail address and phone number to kk@mcnc.org
when you pick up the benchmarks.  In this way, if corrections or
explanations are needed, they can be broadcast without delay.  If you
discover an error in a benchmark (such as two gates shorted together),
we ask that you try to run it as it stands, if at all possible, and
then again with your fix.  Of course, please inform me about the
problem as soon as possible.

We hope to see you at the International Workshop on Layout Synthesis in
North Carolina this spring.

Best regards,

Krzysztof Kozminski
Benchmark Chairman
International Workshop on Layout Synthesis

================== How to obtain the data =================

The benchmark data can be obtained from MCNC in two ways:

1)  Users who have access to the Internet:

    You may establish an 'ftp' connection to the host 'mcnc.org' (also
    known as 'mcnc.mcnc.org' , or 'theo.mcnc.org'; IP node number
    128.109.130.3) and copy the files using the 'mget' command. The login
    name is "anonymous" and the password is any non-empty string of
    characters. The files are in the 'pub/benchmark/pdw91' directory.
    Please consult the ftp manual for the details of operation. If you use
    ftp to obtain the benchmark data, please let me know about it so that I
    can contact you in case of any changes or corrections to the benchmarks
    or the software provided with them.

  * If you are a UNIX user, please check if you have the 'uncompress'
    command available.  Transferring the benchmarks in a compressed form
    reduces the transfer time significantly. After establishing the ftp
    connection to mcnc.org, set the binary transfer mode and use the 'get'
    command of ftp to import either the bench.tar.Z file (about 1 Mbyte)
    if you do have the uncompress command available, or bench.tar
    (about 3.5 Mbytes) otherwise.  Uncompressing the file with the command:

                uncompress bench.tar.Z

    will produce a tar archive bench.tar, the same which would be
    imported with ftp by those who do not have access to uncompress. This
    archive can be unpacked using the UNIX tar utility with the following
    command:

                tar xf bench.tar

    Please consult the ftp manual for the details of operation.  Here is a
    sample script of an ftp session illustrating the process of copying a
    tar archive.

            % ftp mcnc.mcnc.org
            Connected to mcnc.mcnc.org.
            220 mcnc FTP server (Version 4.2 Tue May 9 15:46:45 EDT 1989) ready.
            Name (mcnc.mcnc.org:kk): anonymous
            331 Guest login ok, send ident as password.
            Password:anything
            230 Guest login ok, access restrictions apply.
            ftp> verbose
            Verbose mode off.
            ftp> cd pub/benchmark/PDWorkshop91
            ftp> binary
            ftp> get bench.tar.Z
            ftp> quit

  * Users who do not have the 'uncompress' command but who do have 'tar'
    should repeat the above procedure, but get the file 'bench.tar'
    instead of 'bench.tar.Z'.  Of course, you would not have to uncompress
    it on your local machine; just use the 'tar xf bench.tar' to re-
    create the files.

  * Users who do not have 'tar' will have to get the files explicitly.
    This means that the orignial directory structure of the PDWorshop91
    area must be re-created on your local machine, and each sub-directory
    of files must be copied into the correct place.  See the .readme file
    in the PDWorkshop91 directory, or contact the benchmark coordinator
    at benchmarks@mcnc.org for more details.


	WE STRONGLY RECOMMEND THAT YOU LOG IN VIA FTP AROUND APRIL 1 TO
	CHECK FOR CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS.  ANY SUCH CHANGES WILL BE
	DESCRIBED IN THE FILE ``ANNOUNCEMENTS''.

2)  Users who do not have access to the Internet:

    We are prepared to send you a tape in tar format.  Please contact Jeri 
    Williams at MCNC by e-mail (jeri@mcnc.org) or by phone (919)-248-1938
    and tell her your requirements. ACM SIGDA is providing funds to cover
    the cost of tapes and shipping, so there is no cost to you for this
    service.

    If you wish so, the benchmarks will be sent to you by electronic mail.
    There are about 3.5 megabytes of data.  Since some mailers restrict
    the message size, please be prepared to receive the benchmarks in about
    25 installments.  Please let me know if you have the 'compress' and
    'uudecode' utilities - encoding the benchmark data with those two
    programs reduces the size of the transferred data to about 1.5 Mb.

    Also, you may request that only the data that is of interest to you
    be mailed; we have the following groups of benchmarks:

	- building block (macro block) place & route
	- layout compaction
	- layout synthesis (from transistor-level netlist)
	- mixed building block/standard cell place & route
	- standard cell place & route
	- gate array place & route
	- floorplanning benchmarks 

Please let me know any comments or suggestions regarding the benchmarks
or documentation. I can be reached at the following address:

Dwight Hill
AT&T Bell Labs 3D-446
600 Mountain Ave
Murray Hill, NJ 07733
e-mail: research!dwight@att.com
phone (908) 582-7766
fax: (908) 582-5192


Krzysztof Kozminski
MCNC
P.O. Box 12889
3021 Cornwallis Road
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709
tel. (919)-248-1969, fax (919)-248-1455
e-mail: kk@mcnc.org
