
PHYSICAL DESIGN WORKSHOP
Marriott's Hilton Head Resort
Hilton Head, South Carolina,  April 27 - 29, 1987


Dear Colleague:

Thank you for deciding to participate in the Place-Off portion
of the Physical Design Workshop.  This workshop provides a
unique opportunity to define industry standard benchmarks
for cell-based, automatic layout algorithms and systems.  This
packet contains our attempt at what such benchmarks
should contain.  We intend to devote a significant part of the
workshop to a discussion of benchmarks for cell-based layout
algorithms and systems; please come prepared to discuss your
ideas on benchmarking in general and on these benchmarks
in particular.

The Place-Off circuits have been collected by Ken Roberts
(United Technologies Microelectronics Center) and Al Dunlop
(AT&T Bell Laboratories).  These are representative designs of
up to 4000 cells.

The circuits are composed of gate array cells, standard cells
and mixed standard cells, and general cells.  We were unable
to collect a suite of general cell circuits in time for the
workshop.  After much discussion we decided to distribute the
circuits in Yet Another Layout Language, YAL.  This
decision was made only after considering a lot of other
alternatives.  A description of the YAL format is enclosed on
paper as well as in machine readable form.  In order to ease
the burden of entering the Place-Off circuits into your
system, we have provided a parser written in Berkeley Unix
C (courtesy of Jonathan Rose of Stanford University).

This packet contains the following material:
  Rules for the Place-Off;
  Description of YAL (Yet Another Layout Language);
  How to Obtain Benchmark Data;
  Benchmark Circuit Descriptions:
    Smoke test (Smoke.yal);
    Primary Benchmark numbers 1 and 2 (Primary1.yal) and
     (Primary2yal); and
    Gate array and standard cell libraries (GALib.yal) and
     (SCLib.yal);
  A directory of the files on the floppy; and
  An IBM PC compatible floppy containing the primary
      benchmark data.

I have placed the full set of benchmark data on the
PARCVAX.  The data may be obtianed through ARPA net
FTP (File Transfer Protocol) or by dialing PARCVAX.  See
"How to Obtain Benchmark Data" in this packet.  If all of
these methods are unsatisfactory, write or send electronic mail
to Ken Roberts at the address indicated below.  We are
prepared to send electronic mail or a nine track tape.

A total of 13 circuits has been assembled, and two of
these have been identified as "primary" circuits for the Place
Off.  All participants should try these two circuits
(Primary1.ya  and Primary2.yal), with either (GALib.yal) or
SCLib.yal).  You are requested to submit placement results to
Ken Roberts prior to the workshop.  You are also encouraged to
try as many of the others as you feel are reasonable and report
your results at the workshop.  The circuits are as follows:

  Smoke.yal - A simple "smoke test", to ensure that you can
    handle the data formats correctly.
  Primary1.yal - First "primary" circuit.  750 cells, which can
    be treated as either a gate array or standard cell circuit.
  Primary2.yal - Second "primary" circuit.  2907 cells.  Like the
    above, it can be considered either a standard cell or gate
    array circuit.
  DECIN1.yal - A subchip with approximately 150 cells of
    totally combinational logic.  This and circuit 3 are intended
    to provide examples of extremes in random and regular
    circuits.
  REGFILE.yal - A subchip with 160 cells of highly regular
    sequential logic.
  Test01.yal - a smoke test
  Test02.yal - 1752 standard cells.
  Test03.yal - 2379 standard cells.
  Test04.yal - 3804 standard cells.
  Test05.yal - 1663 standard cells plus 2 large general cells.
  Test06.yal - 1607 standard cells, one small general cell and
    one large general cell.
  Test07.yal - 1515 standard cells, and 4 general cells.
  Test08.yal - 2595 standard cells, and 5 general cells.

We hope that participants will spend a few minutes
presenting their results at the Workshop.  This should
include an overview of your placement method and the
time you spent on the benchmark (number of runs,
time of runs) and amount and type of tuning that
you did.  A discussion of the results in terms of the
following types of metrics is requested:

  wire length metrics such as half-perimeter, spanning tree
    and/or Steiner wiring estimates
  congestion measures;
  actual wiring lengths and via counts, if routed;
  core layout size for standard cell circuits;
  routing completion for gate arrays; and
  any other metric you think is appropriate.

You are encouraged to bring plots of your results, and a
display area will be designated for those that are available.

Finally, it is suggested that you send your placements for
Primary1.yal and Primary2.yal to Ken Roberts prior to the
Workshop (by April 10, 1987, please).  This data should be
submitted in the given format, either on IBM floppy or by
electronic mail (please indicate if you prefer anonymity).
Ken will develop and present consistent statistics for all
results received.
 
Participants in the Place-Off are invited to show their
results at the 1987 Design Automation Conference, in
which a poster and panel session has been scheduled as a
follow-up to this workshop. DA Conference material can
be your Place-off results, or results from further work you
do based on the Physical Design Workshop.  


Best Regards


Bryan Preas
Xerox Palo Alto Research Center
3333 Coyote Hill Road
Palo Alto, CA 94304
Tel: (415) 494-4845
Arpa address: preas.pa@Xerox.com

Ken Roberts
United Technologies Microelectronics Center
1575 Garden of the Gods Road
Colorado Springs, CO 80907
Tel: (303) 594-8065
uucp address: convex!utmc!roberts