
PHYSICAL DESIGN WORKSHOP
Marriott's Hilton Head Resort
Hilton Head, South Carolina,  April 27 - 29, 1987


Index of Files on Floppy Disk

The enclosed disk is a double-sided, IBM PC compatable
floppy formatted for 360 Kilobytes of data.  You should
be able to read the floppy on any IBM PC or compatable
personal computer.  It contains the following files:

  File            Description
	

  Cover.txt    Text of the cover letter describing the
                  benchmark material and the place-Off rules.
  Index.txt    Text of the directory of this floppy disc.
  Rules.txt    A text file describing the benchmark process
                 and the rules applicable to the Physical Design
                 Workshop.
  HowTo.txt    A text file describing how to obtain the
                 benchmark data
  Format.txt	 A text file describing the format of the
                 benchmark data.
  Parse.h    	 A file containing Unix C programs to read and
                 write the benchmark data.
  Smoke.yal	 A small benchmark test case in Physical
                 Design Workshop format.  It is intended to test
                 conversion procedures and should not be reported
                 at the workshop.
  Primary1.yal The first "primary" circuit.  It can be treated
                 as a standard cell or gate array design.  It has 750
                 cells.  Bonding pads are included.
  Primary2.yal The second "primary" circuit.  It can be treated
                 as a standard cell or gate array design.  It has 2907
                 cells.  Bonding pads are included.
  DECIN.yal    A Subchip  with approximately 150 cells of
                 totally combinational logic.  This  and SubChip2.yal
                 are intended to provide examples of extemes in
                 random and regular circuits. 
  REGFILE.yal  A subchip with 160 cells  of  highly  regular
                 sequential logic.
  GALib.yal	 The gate array library for Primary1 and 2 and
                 DECIN and REGFILE
  SCLib.yal	 The standard cell library for Primary1 and 2 and
                 DECIN and REGFILE