
PHYSICAL DESIGN WORKSHOP
Marriott's Hilton Head Resort
Hilton Head, South Carolina,  April 27 - 29, 1987

Physical Design Workshop Place-Off Rules

1.  Introduction

The primary purpose of the Place-Off is to focus on the issue
of benchmarking cell-based automatic layout tools.  We hope
that the ultimate outcome will be a set of "standard"
benchmarks used by everyone in the industry, as well as
recognized standards by which tools are measured and
compared.

The Place-Off circuits are representative designs of up to
4000 standard cells, gate-array cells or mixed standard and
general cells.  In order to get as wide a participation as
possible, we have tried to keep the rules and data formats
simple.  There are few restrictions on how layouts are to be
done and results reported.  We are looking for your ideas on
benchmarking.

Your primary obligation is to accurately report what you did
and why!

2.  Technologies 

Because these circuits come from different sources, several
cell libraries are provided.  The primary benchmarks
(Primary1 or Primary2) may be run with either the standard
cell or gate array library (SCLib or GALib).  Use the
technology description in the text at the start of the
appropriate library.  The remainder of the circuits (Test01 -
Test08) are standard cell or mixed standard cell and general
cell designs and have the primitive module definitions
included in the file containing the parent module.  The
following design rules apply to circuits Test01 - Test 08.

  Metal width - 8 microns
  Metal spacing - 8 microns
  Poly width - 4 microns
  Poly spacing - 4 microns
  Contact size - 4X4 microns
  
  Horizontally, vertically and diagonally adjacent contacts are
    allowed.

  Standard cells may be reflected about the Y axis.

  Pad cells should be rotated so that the bonding pads
    (terminal type PI, PO or PS) is on the outside of the chip.

3.  General Technology Rules

Circuits which are gate arrays or totally standard height cells
will be placed in rows.  The topology is at your discretion
for circuits composed of mixed standard cells and general
cells.

For gate array implementations we will specify the number of
rows, placement positions per row, tracks per channel, and
the number of pad positions on each side of the die.

Some of the circuits will have a pre-specified pad placement.

The gate array library includes feedthrough positions on cells
for over-cell routing.  At least one standard cell library will
also permit over-cell routing.  In reporting results, you
should indicate whether or not you route over the cells.

Most cells are dual-ported.  Terminals are accessed only from
the side specified in the cell description.  Any over-cell
routing is assumed to go straight across the cell.

You may implement power and ground routing in any way
your system permits.  Tell us what you do.

4.  Results 

We hope participants will spend a few minutes presenting
their results at the Workshop.  This should include an
overview of their placement method and a discussion of
results in terms of the following types of metrics:

  wire length metrics such as half-perimeter spanning tree,
    and/or Steiner wiring estimates
  congestion measures such as one- or two-dimension crossing
    counts
  actual wiring lengths and via counts, if routed
  core layout size for standard cell circuits
  routing completion for gate arrays
  any metric you think is appropriate

In addition, we hope you will tell us execution times, number
of runs, and any tuning that you  did.  We encourage
people to bring plots of their results.  We will display any
we get.

Finally, we would like you to send your placements for
Primary1.yal and Primary2.yal to Ken Roberts prior to the
Workshop (by April 10, 1987, please).  We would like this
data in the given format, either on IBM floppy or by
electronic mail.  Ken will develop and present consistent
statistics for all results received (we will maintain
anonymity if you prefer).
